# CMU_Diabetes_Patient_Engagement_Prediction
I worked with a team member Sanjana Kotecha on this project, which was part of a class taught by Professor David Steier at Heinz College of Carnegie Mellon University in the spring of 2020. Our project explores the patient data from Clinica del Azucar (CdA), which is located in Mexico city. The goal of the analysis was to explore the data to find patterns that help us predict the engagement level of patients. Through our analysis, we showed that the frequency and timing of nutritional visits is an important factor that helps patients to manage their diabetes. In our final report, we summarized our findings from the initial EDA,  prediction analysis, proposal of intervention and discussed how we evaluated our intervention. Our conclusion is that it is possible to affect the engagement through behavioral interventions. We evaluated the effect of our intervention on engagement level and demonstrated that it is possible to help the target population to improve the patient outcomes. Our recommendation is that CdA test the intervention on a small set of patients and if successful could be scaled up to a low-engagement population.  The future work could explore more feature variables that are hiding in the comments and text strings of the dataset and tease out the main findings from these notes to improve the behavioral interventions. The codes show how we conducted EDA, clustering, predictive analytics, and carried out our evluation of the intervention using propensity scoring method. 
